Maryland has an area of 12406 square miles and is comparable in overall area with Belgium. 

Maryland possesses a variety of topography within its borders, contributing to its nickname America in Miniature.
It ranges from sandy dunes dotted with seagrass in the east, to low marshlands teeming with wildlife and large bald cypress near the Chesapeake Bay, to gently rolling hills of oak forests in the Piedmont Region, and pine groves in the mountains to the west.

Maryland is bounded on its north by Pennsylvania, on its west by West Virginia, on its east by Delaware and the Atlantic Ocean, and on its south, across the Potomac River, by West Virginia and Virginia. 
The mid-portion of this border is interrupted by Washington, D.C., which sits on land that was originally part of Montgomery and Prince George's counties and including the town of Georgetown, Maryland. 
This land was ceded to the United States Federal Government in 1790 to form the District of Columbia. 
The Chesapeake Bay nearly bisects the state and the counties east of the bay are known collectively as the Eastern Shore. 
Most of the state's waterways are part of the Chesapeake Bay watershed, with the exceptions of a tiny portion of extreme western Garrett County.

The highest point in Maryland, with an elevation of feet, is Hoye Crest on Backbone Mountain, in the southwest corner of Garrett County, near the border with West Virginia, and near the headwaters of the North Branch of the Potomac River. 
Close to the small town of Hancock, in western Maryland, about two-thirds of the way across the state, there are miles between its borders. 
This geographical curiosity makes Maryland the narrowest state, bordered by the Mason–Dixon line to the north, and the northwards-arching Potomac River to the south.

Portions of Maryland are included in various official and unofficial geographic regions. 
For example, the Delmarva Peninsula is composed of the Eastern Shore counties of Maryland, the entire state of Delaware, and the two counties that make up the Eastern Shore of Virginia, whereas the westernmost counties of Maryland are considered part of Appalachia. 
Much of the Baltimore–Washington corridor lies just south of the Piedmont in the Coastal Plain, though it straddles the border between the two regions.

While the lack of any glacial history accounts for the scarcity of Maryland's natural lakes, the oft-repeated claim that Maryland is the only state with no natural lakes is not true. 
Laurel Oxbow Lake is a 55-acre natural lake in existence for over one hundred years two miles north of Maryland City and adjacent to Russett. 
"Chews Lake" is a seven-acre natural lake two miles south-southeast of Upper Marlboro. 
There are numerous man-made lakes, the largest of them being the Deep Creek Lake, a reservoir in Garrett County in westernmost Maryland.

Earthquakes in Maryland are infrequent and small due to the state's distance from seismic/earthquake zones. 
The M5.8 Virginia earthquake in 2011 was felt moderately throughout Maryland. 
Buildings in the state are not well-designed for earthquakes and can suffer damage easily.
